Israel says its troops have surrounded
and entered Southern gaza's largest city
the military says its forces have now
reached the center of hunus commanders
say their troops are engaged in some of
the most intense fighting so far Israel
says its aim is to eliminate Hamas
hundreds of thousands of people have
been told to evacuate to humanitarian
zones but the UN says nowhere in Gaza is
safe survivors sift through the rubble
of a destroyed home struck by Israeli
missiles in the early hours of the
morning there were 30 people inside the
house 20 of them were
children we don't know what happened to
us the fire hit and all of it collapsed
on top of us none of us made it out
completely okay everyone is
hurt the United Nations says almost 1.9
million gazin have fled their homes
since the War Began many wound up here
in Han yunes now gaza's second largest
city is a Battleground Israel says it is
operating against Hamas strongholds in
the South and both sides report that the
fighting is
fierce leaving civilians with nowhere to
go all
my senior colleagues have been very
clear including the Secretary General
saying there is no there is no there are
no safe places in Gaza the main hospital
in Han yunas is overwhelmed
the UN says delivering vital aid
supplies is impossible amid the
fighting and still the injured keep
coming as do the
bodies the devastation in Han yunas has
left many Palestinians with a sense that
the world has abandoned
them we need someone to stand by our
side we need someone to find us a
solution we are devastated St but
despite a brief ceasefire between Israel
and Hamas the renewed fighting is as
intense as
ever DW's F FAA is in Jerusalem what's
the Israeli military's aim in Han
yunus their aim didn't change that is
from the beginning to eliminate Hamas
but when it comes to hunis being the
second biggest city in the Gaza Strip
Israel believes that this is basically
the main second stronghold after Gaza
City where hamus militants and a lot of
hamus Fighters are believed to be
especially the presumed Mastermind
behind the terrorist attacks of October
7th here in Israel and that is SVA and
he's believed to be hiding somewhere
there in that City but as I'm saying
this it's of course very clear as well
that it's not just the militants but
there are a lot of civilians who have
been actually told weeks ago to evacuate
from northern Gaza and go to the
southern part of the strip to seek some
safety and now as Israel is pushing in
more and more into the city the
civilians feel that they have to
obviously uh leave and and but then the
question is where they are going to go
to and and where can they actually find
safety because they've been promised
this once but now once again uh they
have to go and and see another way
trying to find some safety and there not
many spots left really according to the
UN in fact there is no spot left when it
comes to safety for civilians in Gaza
right now well besides Israel's
Ambitions in uh trying to track down
Yahya Sina and also dismantling Hamas
how is it responding to the growing
International pressure to reduce the
number of Civilian
casualties from the israelian
perspective I mean they keep saying that
they're not fighting civilians but that
they're fighting the Hamas militants
they are also saying that given this
interactive map that that's been divided
that's been dividing Gaza Strip into uh
2,300 blocks warning people depending on
which block they are in that they're
going to be warned by Flyers uh online
radio Etc that they should leave when
they get a warning uh to them uh this
seems to be uh basically enough uh what
they can do given the circumstances they
say that Hamas is misusing civilians as
human Shields and uh they happen to be
from from their intelligence uh in using
the residential infrastructure basically
of of of civilians but yes if you are
listen listening into that growing
international calls for limiting the
casualties uh you can't stop by
wondering just really how intense how
more intense this fighting is going to
be and just how the humanitarian
international law can be upheld given
the circumstances as the fighting on the
ground intensifies Ben and funny what
about the political situation at home
does primee Minister Benjamin nety who
still have political
Ambitions Prim
I mean it's really anyone's guess what's
going to happen to prime minister uh
netan once this war is over Al it's
unclear when it's going to be over what
is clear that Mr netan is fighting for
political survival in fact there's been
a lot of criticism from the beginning
the way he's been handling this entire
situation for first and foremost why uh
October 7th even had to take place that
there's a lot of criticism that he has
underestimated what Hamas is able to do
a group that's been classified a
terrorist organiz ation by multiple
countries and there is increasing
tension building up as well because a
lot of relatives of the hostages that
that are remaining in Gaza Strip about
130 people are believed to be still
inside Gaza Strip the relatives of those
people say that prime minister netan is
not doing enough so clearly uh whatever
Mr netan is is is doing is not just
under uh uh scrutiny here domestically
but also under stronger scrutiny
internationally the main question is
though what the United States is going
to do that is extremely supporting uh uh
or extraordinary rather supporting
Israel just how they are going to use
their leverage how this war is going to
be conducted moving forward from
here that was DW's funny fisha in
Jerusalem let's look at this with James
denzo who's a head of conflict and
humanitarian policy at save the children
he joins us from London welcome to DW
you recent L posted on X that there is
no safe space for more than a million
children in Gaza with fighting
intensifying around Han Unis that
situation must be even worse
now it is it's desperate and it's
incredibly Bleak for over a million
children in the Gaza Strip I've just
seen some images circulated by our team
uh of Drone footage of some of the
displacement camps in an around car
Unice these are uh you know canvas tents
uh that are densely packed together to
uh look after and shelter uh the
families that have been forced out of
their homes now over 80% of the whole of
the Gaza Strip uh who are homeless and
you can only imagine the consequences of
explosive weapons with wide area effects
landing on or near such locations the
potential for for Mass casualties on top
of what's already been uh an incredibly
bloody 60 days for children is is a very
real one right and and are you able is
your organiz
still working in Gaza now that fighting
has
resumed it's very difficult for us and
our staff to operate in Gaza uh it's the
most dangerous place to be an aid worker
over 100 uh un workers have been killed
a number that continues to rise uh our
team have been forced from the homes
themselves are are looking after their
families understandably as a matter of
priority we have been able to move
trucks of Aid in across from uh Rafa
over the the past few weeks but that uh
Supply is incredibly precarious and the
ability to move Aid inside Gaza is is
getting more limited by the minute so
there is a a disconnect between the
growing uh need of for a population H
and the amounts of Aid that can actually
meet that and in between those two
spaces is is of course uh the suffering
of children right and I'm I'm sorry I I
didn't quite get that in in your answer
so is save the children still operating
in
Gaza
we're not directly programming in Gaza
but we are able to provide trucks that
go into the UN coordinated system in
through the raic crossing so uh we're
doing a bit but there is so much that is
needed I couldn't couldn't claim for a
second that we're meeting that need
understood and uh so Aid trucks are
still coming in did you
say yes uh the numbers are are still
though a fraction of what they were
prior to the horrendous events of
October the 7th uh and of course the
need is multiplying as the population
becomes uh more vulnerable whether
that's for medicines clean water food
and and everything else so uh Aid there
is a a level of Aid that's able to get
in but as the UN Secretary General
himself uh wrote today that Aid
operation is is rapidly collapsing in on
of itself as the spaces in Gaza become
so much more constrained right and and I
want to ask you about those spaces
because it's it is incredible to me
looking at this from outside that people
would actually get in those trucks and
drive into to what is clearly a war zone
so are there have they been delivering
to places that that that are known to be
safe for
now well I think as your program
suggested there's no safe place so let's
not pretend that there is and it is a
risky profession of course uh being an
aid worker delivering those trucks the
challenge about focusing so much on
trucks is that we can track the numbers
that cross over into Gaza but it's very
difficult to know beyond that point
whether they're getting as close to the
people who need that Aid as they should
be because of those issues with uh no
deconfliction of movement or safe spaces
that are agreed to by all parties to the
conflict so uh it's a bit of an illusion
and on top of that if you have a
continued issue around cutting off water
electricity and fuel the ability to
provide for a population of over 2.2
million 80% of whom were dependent on
Aid prior to the events of October is
completely fanciful because those
numbers are are staggering and I just
wonder how what the thinking is behind
the distribution how how do you decide
where to send a limited number of trucks
in a tiny area that is being bombed and
where everybody needs
it it's it's a horrendous question it's
such an important question this is an
aid operation like no other in the sense
that the ability to do needs assessments
and prioritize the most vulnerable
children in Gaza for the prioritization
of Aid uh is simply not possible in the
ways that we would like so uh I don't
want to sort of talk to you as an aid
worker and pretend that the aid
operation is able to really push back
against the amount of need we're seeing
in Gaza for a while during the uh
so-called pause we were able to uh
increase operations and increase the
sort of decline if you will into
suffering but but now as things get more
intense in such a small densy populated
uh South part of Gaza it is almost
impossible okay we thank you for for
joining us and outlining that for us
James Denow head of conflict and
humanitarian policy i' save the children
thank you so
much